#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Discussion
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:Discussion"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*

\series bold
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
In this chapter we examine the results from Parts 1 and 2 of this thesis,
 describe how the two parts relate, and differ, and then explain any connections
 between the findings from the two parts.
 In particular, consideration is given to the different aims of each section
 and how the two parts combine to give a comprehensive picture of the covariance
 in wind and solar over Australia.
 Discussion of how the results are reliant on the cost and technology assumption
s, as well as the data used is also presented.
 The effect that including different technologies and assumptions would
 have had on the results is then discussed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Connections Between Parts 1 and 2
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Connections-Between-Parts1-2"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In principle this thesis was split into two parts because of the the known
 differences in atmospheric variability at the various spatio-temporal scales.
 It was assumed that an investigation into both the short-term/fine-scale
 and long-term/large-scale variability of RE resources was needed in order
 to properly assess the renewable potential of Australia.
 The climatology in Part 1 presented average conditions--commonly occurring
 features of the large-scale variability over the Australian continent.
 What was subsequently found in Part 2 showed that some features from the
 synoptic climatology in Part 1 that were detrimental to wind and solar
 output (even in an average sense) were in fact also problematic for the
 optimised RE networks.
 Despite the optimisation process in Part 2 possessing the ability to exploit
 the decorrelation in the wind field over large distances there were still
 some large-scale circulation patterns that resulted in stilling of the
 winds over vast distances--including heavily populated, and therefore also
 important, areas of Australia.
 And that despite the NEM-only simulation being purposefully simplistic
 (for instance, there was no consideration given to power flow across the
 transmission network) there would have been no possible optimised network
 capable of producing enough electricity during the instances of large-scale
 low wind speeds.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Without a more diverse resource mix, planning a future RE network to take
 into account these instance of extreme stilling over the NEM is unlikely
 to be a fruitful exercise.
 The optimisation process was designed to meet the electricity demand for
 the majority of the time.
 Any solution that the optimisation could have trialled that did not satisfy
 ‘average’ conditions would have drawn on excessive amounts of expensive
 back-up resources, which would not have been cost-optimal and such a solution
 would not have survived to the end of the iterative search process.
 What is seen from Fig.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:All-Nodes-RE-Demand-Hist"

\end_inset

 though is that none of the synoptic regimes have a large negative average
 RE - demand relationship.
 That is, on the whole the NEM-only optimisation is able to extract useful
 energy from all of the common synoptic weather regimes.
 In fact some of the common synoptic weather patterns are heavily biased
 towards oversupply in the NEM-only simulation (including those seen in
 Chpt.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sub:High-RE-Nodes6-25"

\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part 2 of this thesis identified that the region surrounding node 9 was
 significantly associated with very low RE output.
 It was stated then that node 9 in conjunction with surrounding nodes presented
 a sub-grouping of similar looking MSLP patterns, responsible for occasions
 of large-scale low wind speed across much of the NEM region.
 Part 1 of this thesis in its examination of the long-term association between
 the SOM nodes and wind/solar availability examined in detail node 20 as
 exhibiting low wind and solar potential for most of the Australian continent.
 However, analysis of node 9 and surrounding nodes from Part 1 reveals that
 this region of the SOM also exhibits low wind and solar potential for the
 NEM states (not shown).
 Part 1 therefore gives some supporting evidence that node 9, and similar
 looking nodes, are potentially detrimental to a largely wind-based NEM
 network.
 What it also indicates is that the 2-year, high resolution, optimisation
 is supported by the climatology of 21 years.
 In fact, node 9 wind capacity values that average ~0.15 for the NEM region
 from Part 1 are likely more detrimental to wind output than the findings
 from Part 2.
 Part 2, while identifying the node 9 region of the SOM as being significantly
 associated with very low RE output, showed that node 9 on average was not
 associated with low RE output (average of +3.1GW).
 The difference between the low capacity values in Part 1 and the average
 of 3.1GW undersupply for Part 2 concerns the timing of the output.
 It is likely that the size of the wind installations and the connection
 of installations across vast distances in the NEM-only simulation allowed
 for the net output to still meet demand on average for node 9.
 What the capacity values in Part 1 do indicate, however, is that the identifica
tion of node 9 as associated with low RE (specifically low wind power potential)
 was unlikely to be an artifact of the relatively small 2 year ACCESS-A
 sample.
 That is, the climatologically low average wind potential of node 9 gives
 support to the possibility that node 9 can also be associated with instances
 of very low wind output from the optimised network in Part 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another link between Parts 1 and 2 of this thesis yet to be explored is
 the association between the Part 1 decorrelation length scale and Part
 2 high connection cost optimisation.
 Part 1 of this thesis found that decorrelation in the wind field could
 be reached at a distance of approximately 1,300-1,400km.
 The decorrelation length implies that on average 2 wind installations separated
 by this distance will have unrelated wind power output time series.
 This finding was important because of the possibility to minimise moments
 of very low net output.
 Wind installations with independent output are much more likely to combine
 to form a less variable net output than those whose time series are related
 and reach maxima/minima in output at the same times.
 This decorrelation length scale relates to the 8X scenario from Part 2.
 When pushed to contract resources by a very high connection cost the energy
 model in Part 2 was able to determine that 4 large but distant wind installatio
ns were sufficient to meet most of the demand for the NEM in 2010-2011.
 Fig.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:RE-Demand-Comparison-All-TransCosts"

\end_inset

 showed that most of the variability in wind output from across the NEM
 region was captured by these 4 large installations (by means of a comparison
 to the other simulations were the energy model had smaller cost impediments
 to install resources in many different locations).
 Moreover Table.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "tab:8X-Wind-Power-Correlation"

\end_inset

 showed that the output from these 4 large installations were highly uncorrelate
d.
 Thus the distances between these 4 large stations provides an optimisation-base
d decorrelation length scale.
 The minimum separation distance between the 4 large wind installations
 of the 8X scenario was on average 884km.
 This separation distance is much smaller than the comparative figure from
 Part 1 of 1,300-1,400km.
 However, this was not unexpected.
 It was expected that the increased temporal resolution of the ACCESS-A
 data (hourly) when compared to the ERA-Interim data (6-hourly) would capture
 more of the spatial variability in the wind field.
 Capturing more of the temporal variability at each location in space would
 provide a greater degree of independence in output, thus resulting in less
 correlation of adjacent locations and a smaller decorrelation length.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One conclusion from this thesis might be that Australia could struggle to
 rely heavily on renewable energy in the future because some of the common
 weather patterns represented by the SOM produced difficult conditions that
 even the optimised RE system in Part 2 could not cover.
 However, this conclusion fails to take into account possibility that these
 potentially detrimental weather patterns might be quite predictable.
 Despite the scope of this thesis not including the predictability of low
 RE weather patterns, what was presented could be utilised as a forecasting
 complement.
 Given an accurate forecast of MSLP it is possible that the results of Part
 2 be used to give a first-guess of the likely impact on wind and solar
 energy across the NEM.
 Utilising the results in this way illustrates how the incorporation of
 a synoptic climatology (derivation of the SOM) and a short-term optimisation
 complement.
 The optimisation identified problematic (and favourable) conditions across
 the NEM and the climatology then enabled the identification of the associated
 large-scale weather types responsible for the particular conditions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An important consideration yet to be discussed in this thesis is the fact
 that the demand data were predetermined.
 In fact, all of the data concerning the optimisation were known a priori,
 which would be a significant advantage when operating an RE network.
 In reality the ability of RE to meet demand is affected by the quality
 of forecasts of both RE and demand.
 The operator of the NEM, AEMO, forecasts demand data in order to determine
 how much supply is needed in each trading interval.
 A poor forecast of demand, for instance, would rely more heavily on easily
 dispatchable generation (in this case hydro storage and gas), while the
 reverse is true for a good forecast.
 Thus a NEM that has the configuration of wind and solar suggested by the
 NEM-only simulation would in reality rely more heavily on storage and gas
 back-up than is seen in Chpt.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chap:Optimised-Solutions-for-NEM"

\end_inset

.
 To this end the results in Chpt.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chap:Optimised-Solutions-for-NEM"

\end_inset

 need to be considered as a best-case scenario.
 For a realistic demand forecast the reliance on back-up resources and storage
 would be higher.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be possible to conduct an optimisation that included a non-perfect
 forecast of demand.
 An optimiser that is being fed demand data with a small random component
 would imitate reality and likely result in the use of more back-up resources.
 Further to this it would be possible to operate a financial model for each
 resource centre--as part of a new simulation.
 The inclusion of a financial model would also ensure that each installation
 was financially viable and would likely concentrate resources away from
 the smaller RE stations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Reductions in the amount of back-up storage needed would be possible with
 the inclusion of RE resources that are independent of the weather.
 If the aim is to design a NEM network that has the highest possible penetration
 of RE then an important consideration would be the addition of weather
 independent RE resources.
 For instance, geothermal energy, biomass and even solar thermal with storage
 are dispatchable RE resources that would need consideration in order to
 increase the percentage of demand met by RE.
 It is entirely possible that the moments of large-scale RE unavailability
 seen in the NEM-only scenario could be avoided given the co-location of
 enough of these distaptchable RE alternatives.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
