#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions and Future Work
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:Conclusions-Future-Work"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is recommended that some key research questions not addressed in this
 thesis require further examination.
 In particular, the following points:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

1.
 Simulations that include the use of non-weather-dependent Renewable Energy
 (RE) resources.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Point 1 will allow for an increase in the reliance on RE without the further
 exposure to atmospheric variability.
 This is an important consideration if the aim of a future Australian electricit
y network is to rely heavily--potentially 100%--on RE resources.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

2.
 An investigation into the possibility, or not, that the drivers of demand
 and RE output are correlated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Point 2 is an important aspect of the variability in RE that would have
 been addressed in this thesis had time permitted.
 For instance, a question that arises from the consideration of point 2
 is whether or not it was possible that some of the high demand days in
 Part 2 were offset by high output from RE.
 And then if so, what the meteorological reasons were for such a relationship.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

3.
 An investigation into the implications of projected climate change on resource
 availability and any changes to the relationship between wind and solar.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Point 3 arises from the expectation that shifts in the nature and positioning
 of weather systems occur in the future due to anthropogenic climate change.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Purich2013"

\end_inset

 note an expected southward shift in the position of the subtropical ridge
 while 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Barnes2013"

\end_inset

 note a similar shift in the mid-latitude storm track.
 With these points in mind it is reasonable to suggest that some of the
 weather regimes analysed in this thesis also exhibit changes in their positioni
ng.
 A question that arises from this point would be: does this type of latitudinal
 shift in the climatological positioning of weather systems then alter the
 resource availability in the NEM region? And if so, how quickly this happens
 will be important.
 A change in resource availability that occurs too quickly might result
 in stranded assets.
 A region that was once identified as having a superior RE resource might
 cease to have such a quality resource.
 In this case, contributions from other, or even new installations, would
 be needed in order to maintain supply.
 This last point would be quite costly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another consequence of climate change is the increased likelihood of extremes
 (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citealp
key "C.B.2012"

\end_inset

).
 It would be important to investigate the implication of having more extreme
 behaviour in RE output on an electrical network that relies on RE to meet
 demand.
 In particular, similar to point 2, if the extremes in the weather also
 cause more demand for electricity.
 Extreme cold or warm would likely to result in much higher demand for electrici
ty in order to keep homes and businesses at comfortable temperatures.
 Furthermore, would an increase in extreme RE output put new and significant
 stresses on the electrical network? This too could be costly and thus requires
 investigation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this thesis it has been shown that the potential for Australia to extract
 useful energy from the wind and solar fields is high.
 By approaching the question of how the wind and solar resources vary at
 various spatio-temporal resolutions from two different angles it was concluded
 that a high reliance on Renewable Energy (RE) in the National Electricity
 Market region is possible, but that there were some large-scale features
 (synoptic weather patterns and decorrelation length scales) of the atmosphere
 over Australia that need to be taken into account when designing and operating
 such an RE-based network.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By utilising a Self-Organising Map (SOM) of the ERA-Interim 1989-2009 Mean
 Sea-Level Pressure (MSLP) field over Australia a series of commonly occurring
 features of the synoptic scale MSLP were determined.
 The time series of MSLP from ERA-Interim was then converted to a time series
 of archetypal weather patterns.
 Some of the common regimes were then shown to produce concurrently high
 wind and solar output, while others were associated with, on average, limited
 wind and solar potential.
 Analysis of just the wind field from ERA-Interim showed that decorrelation
 was reached by spatial separation of approximately 1,300-1,400km.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Following this an energy model was built.
 The energy model was given wind and solar data for 2010-2011 from the ACCESS-A
 regional model and historical demand data from the Australian Electricity
 Market Operator.
 When given the chance to optimise the whole of Australia the energy model
 chose to install most of the RE in remote Western Australia (WA).
 Available locations to optimised were then limited to the NEM region because
 no realistic penalty could be applied to deter the energy model from using
 such unrealistic WA locations.
 A base NEM-only scenario was then produced.
 The NEM-only scenario with standard transmission costs showed some preference
 for locations closer to the capital cities.
 However, the largest wind installation (northern Queensland) and the only
 solar installation from the base NEM-only scenario were still long distances
 from the nearest demand centre.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By conducting optimisations of data from just the Austral summer and winter
 it was revealed that some very distinct summer-only and winter-only features
 were responsible for the distribution of resources seen in the base scenario.
 In particular, the non-use of north Queensland in the summer-only optimisation
 showed that the north Queensland wind resources is a wintertime (dry season)
 only phenomenon.
 The lack of installed solar capacity in the wintertime optimisation also
 showed that the standard transmission cost was too large a cost impediment
 to justify any use of solar Photovoltaics in the wintertime.
 Scenarios of the whole 2010-2011 period that utilised increased transmission
 penalties also revealed that the solar resource, without storage, was not
 good enough to justify significantly larger connection costs.
 The scenarios with increased connection costs also resulted in the contraction
 of wind resources to 4 distinct regions (north Queensland, Brisbane, north-west
 Tasmania and South Australia).
 The 4 wind regimes were then shown to be highly uncorrelated, reinforcing
 their usefulness in combining to meet demand, but also providing an optimisatio
n-based decorrelation length scale of approximately 884km.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
